#Language Editing

By the beginning of the third project term the functional version of the Escapeling bot has already been successfully launched. 
The Escapeling story had a main working plot, adopted a specific storytelling style, and the communication with the user was built on a certain tone of voice. 
While the progress of the initiating team was undeniably impressive, 
the specifics of the current semester’s work plan allowed us to dive deeper into the details of the design and general story framework. 
It has been a joint decision to process the existing text and develop an updated refined version the plot. 
One of the first tasks of the design team was to simplify the storytelling language in order to make the story text 
(and hence, all the communication with the bot) more accessible and inviting for the (pre-) intermediate English speakers. 
While studying the text we have found that while expressive and exciting, some of the story details were too elaborate, 
the tone of communication with the user was seldom inconsistent, 
and certain passages involved complex upper-intermediate (or advanced) grammar structures or employed compound wording. 
During Sprint 1 the extensive group work included independent comment entry and joint contribution review over the course of two weeks, 
which proved to be practical and efficient technique of text processing. 
The design team managed to adapt and improve the storytelling language using the vast number of resources such as Thesaurus, 
Cambridge and Merriam-Webster dictionaries and Rewordify tool that allowed enriching the text while keeping it understandable.
As a result, the text was admittedly more readable for general intermediate audience, 
inadequate phrasing cases were eliminated or simplified, which did not, 
however, result in the decline of the text quality.
This activity has acquainted the design team with all the text materials 
that existed in the project and allowed to pave the way towards more drastic but helpful changes to the storytelling system and the game plot.
